docs: revamp secrets documentation (#5124)
kestra-io/docs: src/contents/docs/15.how-to-guides/vault-read-only-secrets/index.md

---
title: "Use HashiCorp Vault as a Read-Only Secrets Backend in Kestra"
h1: Use HashiCorp Vault as a Read-Only Secrets Backend
sidebarTitle: Vault Read-Only Secrets
description: Configure HashiCorp Vault as a read-only secrets backend in Kestra Enterprise so workflows read from Vault without Kestra managing the secret lifecycle.
icon: /src/contents/docs/icons/concepts.svg
editions: ["EE", "Cloud"]
---

Configure HashiCorp Vault as a read-only secrets backend so Kestra reads secrets from an existing Vault instance without managing their lifecycle.

## Prerequisites

- A running Vault instance with the [KV Secrets Engine v2](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/secrets/kv/kv-v2) enabled.
- A Kestra Enterprise namespace configured to use a dedicated secrets manager.
- A Vault token with read access to the relevant secret paths.

> For background on how read-only mode differs from normal mode, see [Secrets manager modes](../../07.enterprise/02.governance/secrets-manager/index.md#secrets-manager-modes).

Reviewer: Maybe 
```suggestion
For background on how read-only mode differs from managed mode, see [Secrets manager modes](../../07.enterprise/02.governance/secrets-manager/index.md#secrets-manager-modes).
```

```plaintext
secret/
  ├── app1/
  │   ├── db/          ← secret path (visible as a secret name in Kestra)
  │   │   ├── DATABASE_USERNAME    ← subkey
  │   │   └── DATABASE_PASSWORD    ← subkey
  │   └── api/
  │       └── API_TOKEN
  └── app2/
      └── config
```

- `secret` — the KV engine name (`root-engine` in Kestra config).
- `app1`, `app2` — path prefixes (set via `secret-path-prefix`).
- `db`, `api`, `config` — secret names visible in Kestra UI.
- `DATABASE_USERNAME`, `API_TOKEN` — subkey names referenced in flows.

## Configure Vault as a read-only backend

In Kestra, navigate to the namespace you want to connect to Vault and open the **Edit** tab. Under **Dedicated secrets manager**, enter the Vault configuration:

![Vault read-only configuration in Kestra namespace](./read-only-secrets-3.png)

The equivalent YAML configuration is:

```yaml
kestra:
  secret:
    type: vault
    vault:
      address: https://my-vault:8200/
      root-engine: secret
      secret-path-prefix: app1
      token:
        token: my-vault-access-token

>       read-only: true

Reviewer: This is incorrect here?
It should be one level above inside `secret:`

Author: `read-only` ? or which prop?

Reviewer: Yes `read-only`

Reviewer: Thanks!

      ADD COLUMN product_id int,
      ADD COLUMN price double precision,
      ADD COLUMN quantity int,
      ADD COLUMN total double precision;

  - id: copy_in
    type: io.kestra.plugin.jdbc.postgresql.CopyIn
    table: "kestra_example_secret"
    from: "{{ outputs.download.uri }}"
    header: true
    columns: [order_id,customer_name,customer_email,product_id,price,quantity,total]
    delimiter: ","

pluginDefaults:
  - forced: true
    type: io.kestra.plugin.jdbc.postgresql
    values:
      url: jdbc:postgresql://ep-ancient-flower-a2e73um1-pooler.eu-central-1.aws.neon.tech/neondb?user=neondb_owner&password={{ secret('my-app', subkey='NEON_PASSWORD') }}
```
:::

After execution, Kestra confirms it read `NEON_PASSWORD` from Vault and inserted 100 rows:

![Kestra execution logs showing successful Vault secret resolution](./read-only-secrets-6.png)

![Neon database showing inserted rows](./read-only-secrets-7.png)

## What happened in Vault

Vault held the secret at the path `business-unit/my-app` (in the `admin` namespace, if using Vault Enterprise):

![Vault UI showing the business-unit secret engine and my-app path](./read-only-secrets-2.png)

> Kestra resolved `NEON_PASSWORD` from that path at runtime, without storing or caching the value beyond the execution.

Reviewer: I think we cache the value here, `kestra.secret.cache` is on by default with `expireAfterWrite: 60s`, so the resolved value stays in memory ~60s. 

Maybe reword to "not persisted, but cached in memory (~60s, configurable)"

WDYT?

Author: Sounds good 👍

> Kestra resolved `NEON_PASSWORD` from that path at runtime, without storing or caching the value beyond the execution.

Author: ```suggestion
Kestra resolved `NEON_PASSWORD` from that path at runtime. The value is not persisted; it is cached in memory (~60s, configurable).
```
